# RAW 264.7 Macrophages

Source : Sigma Aldrich - ECACC

https://www.sigmaaldrich.com/FR/fr/product/sigma/cb_85062803

## References :

- http://www.bowdish.ca/lab/wp-content/uploads/2013/02/Culturing-RAW264.7-Cells.pdf

- [ECACC Cell Lines :: RAW 264.7 -](http://www.cellbankaustralia.com/raw-264.7.html)

- Lorraine Montel (former post-doc)

# Equipment

- Level 2 BioHood o 37°C, 5% CO2 Incubator 

- Centrifuge 

## Disposable materials

- Flasks : 

- 50 mL Falcon tubes

- 

## Media

- ATTC DMEM + 10% FCS (+L-glutamine if necessary, Pen/Strep is optional). Note: RPMI + 10% FCS (+L-glutamine if necessary, Pen/Strep is optional) can also be used.

- PBS (heated to 37°C) 

- Trypsin-EDTA (REF, Supplier) or TrypLE (REF, Supplier)

### Preparation of the cell culture medium

- step 1

- 

# 

# Maintaining RAW 264.7 Cell Cultures

## Splitting RAX 264.7 cells

## Thawing a frozen HeLa cell stock

This protocol is for thawing a frozen stock of HeLa cells and transferring the thawed cells to a T75cm² flask. Go through this protocol as quickly as possible.
Before starting the protocol: 

- Pre-warm 50 mL of cell media to 37°C, and place 30 mL in a 50 mL Falcon tubes just before beginning.

- 
1. Quickly thaw the cells in a 37°C bath. Make sure the lid is tight and the cryo-tube
   remains upright in the bath to avoid contamination. You may want to carefully
   wipe the sides of the tube with 70% ethanol to avoid contamination.
2. Transfer the 1 mL of cells into the 30 mL of pre-warmed media. This dilutes out
   the DMSO.
3. Spin the cells down 5-10 minutes at 1500 rpm max.
4. Pull off the supernatant, and re-suspend the cells in 12 mL of prewarmed cell
   media.
5. Transfer to a T75cm² flask.

## Cryopreservation procedure

Harvest cells in exponential growth. Not after a week end !
A good idea is to continue to maintain the cells in culture until the viability of
the recovered cells is confirmed!

1 T75cm2 flask = 2 or 3 vial of 1mL

1. Check your cell culture for contamination from bacteria, fungi, mycoplasma, and viruses immediately before cryopreservation. In most cases, the results of the contamination screen will be available some time after the cultures are cryopreserved (10 to 14 days). If contamination is confirmed, then destroy the frozen material.

2. Prepare a freeze medium consisting of complete growth medium and from 5 to 10%
   DMSO. Keep in the fridge 4°C.

3. Collect cells by gentle centrifugation (10 minutes at 125 x g) and resuspend them in the freeze medium 4°C at a concentration of 1 x 10^6 to 5 x 106 viable cells/ml.

4. Label the appropriate number of vials with the name of the cell line and the date. Then add 1ml of the cell suspension to each of the vials and seal.

5. Allow cells to equilibrate in the freeze medium at room temperature for a minimum of 15 minutes but no longer than 40. This time is usually taken up in dispensing aliquots of the cell suspension into the vials.

After 40 minutes, cell viability may decline due to the DMSO. It's not necessary to work in ice.

6. Place the vials into polystyrene rack at -20°C, or place it in the chamber in a mechanical freezer at -70°C (or colder) for at least 24 hours.

7. After 24h, quickly transfer the vials to a liquid nitrogen or -80°C freezer. Frozen material
   will warm up at a rate of 10°C per minute and cells will deteriorate rapidly if warmed above -50°C.

8. After 24 hours at -80°C, remove one vial, restore the cells in culture medium, and determine their viability and sterility.

# Staining RAW 264.7 cells for live cell imaging

## Nucleus

dfdf

## Actin

ddd

# Fixation and Staining RAW 264.7 cells for fixed cell imaging

## Fixation

dfdf

## Actin Staining

sdsd

# List of materials and suppliers

| Material       | Manufacturer | Supplier | Reference |
| -------------- | ------------ | -------- | --------- |
| Flasks 75cm**2 | Nunclon      | VWR      | 734-2131  |
|                |              |          |           |
|                |              |          |           |
